### **TEST REPORT**

------

##### Component Testing

The component of the game that was tested for proper functionality was the player movement mechanics combined with the shooting mechanics. After moving the code for player movement into the appropriate areas within the separate classes, I ran the game to test the smoothness of the movement controls. The animation was running as desired, but a bug arose after I pressed the key to shoot during the movement animation. As the player moved left or right, the player would freeze to allow for the bullet to shoot out the gun without anymore movement afterwards.  I thought this was not a huge problem until I pressed the shoot key again. The player would move a small amount to the direction that I held the key in while the gun shot a bullet. Also there was no limit to the amount of bullets allowed to be shot out the gun. The player could cheat his or her way to victory by spamming the shoot key while holding down the left or right movement key.

These bugs detailed above were fixed by adding the specific switches to ensure that the player cannot move while he or she held down the move key and pressed the shoot key. I also added a bullet_limit variable to the Settings class to be used in the BeerRaiders class in a method that checked the amount of bullets created and stored in the Sprite group list to ensure no more than the bullet_limit was allowed to be shot, and there were less than the bullet_amount of bullets on screen. Furthermore, I discovered the bullet would not appear from the correct location that is based on the direction that the player is facing. For instance, no matter if the player was facing left or right, the bullet would always appear above the player's head and move upward. This of course did not make the bullet appear as if it was being shot out of the gun. To fix the bullet mechanics, I made sure the bullet was created to appear above the gun. I took into account the last direction the player was facing during or after movement to better implement the bullet physics. 

##### System Testing

A major part of the system mechanics is the interaction of the enemies with the player sprite. After I got the enemies to move in unison towards the player sprite, I was tasked with presenting the outcome of the player and enemy collision. As was the case with the original space invaders game, the player would lose a life and the enemies would respawn at the top left area of the game window to reiterate the movement towards the player. I decided to have the same outcome present itself in the game. Therefore, I tested the player and enemy sprite collision by having the enemies drop downward towards the player at a faster rate and printed out a message that stated "Player hit!" in the IDE integrated terminal every time a ship collided with the player. As I stated before, the bullets were created and stored in a sprite batch group. This group of sprites was checked to see if the amount of bullet sprites that moved out of the game's playing area was properly deleted from the group. To test this I again used the terminal to print out the amount of sprites contained in the group after the creation of the sprites and deletion of the sprites.     

##### Acceptance Testing

The progressive difficulty between levels was implemented by checking to see if the alien sprites would move faster to the left and right after each incrementation of the level attribute of the GameStats class. A helper method was created in the Settings class to increase the speed of the aliens' and player's movement. The difficulty would arise in the form of faster enemy movement. The game was played by a team mate to test the movement speed of the enemies and player after each incrementation of the level. It was discovered that player movement speed was greatly increased at the point the player reaches level 15. My decision was then to make the movement speed of the player increase at a slower rate than that of the enemy. 

Good life mechanics was the next user story to ensure was implemented properly into the game. I stored the amount of lives that the player has into an attribute stored in the GameStats class. The attribute, named 'ships_left', would be checked in a helper method within the BeerRaiders class. Here the attribute is checked to see if it contains at least one life to continue the game. The game was played with faster enemy drop speed to ensure faster collision with the player. Each collision with the player did result in a removal of one life, on and off the screen. When the player lost all lives, the game reset to the title screen of the game as expected.  

